Dear fellow practitioners, on the occasion of the
first anniversary of the founding of Minh
Niem Dharma Center, I would like to share with you the
topic of how
to practice diligently and
beneficially while far from the temple. There is a
story in the Dhammapada that
teaches about two monks who very much wanted to pay
homage to the
Buddha. While traveling, they
encountered a drought and
saw a puddle of water. Both were
very thirsty. One monk
said, "I cannot drink this water
because it contains many
insects—the kind we can see with our
eyes. At that time, they did not
possess the divine eye like the
Buddha, but rather saw many bacteria. If
we drink this water, the bacteria
will die because when we drink, the water dries up, and the
bacteria will
no longer be able to live there."
The other monk replied, "
If we don't drink this water, we will
also die, and because we die, we will not be able to receive the
Buddha's teachings." The other monk firmly refused.
If one doesn't drink, the one who doesn't
die of thirst, while the one who does drink doesn't
die of thirst and reaches the Buddha.
Then the monk, upon meeting the
Buddha, said, "Venerable Lord, we are
two brothers, but one
has already died of thirst. As
for me, I have come here to see the
Venerable Lord." At that moment, the Buddha pointed to
a celestial being nearby. The Buddha
asked, "Do you know who this is?" The
monk replied, "I don't
know." The Buddha then explained, "The
monk who died, after death, was
reborn as this celestial being and
came here to see the Buddha. This is
because that monk had compassion
and kept the precepts. That is, he did not kill. It
means that if you drink all the
water, the insects there
will die because they have no
environment. The
monk who didn't drink the water was the one who
kept the precepts. Therefore, by
sacrificing his body, he...  He was born into the heavenly realm.
But the other one couldn't
keep his precepts; he drank water to nourish
his body, but he caused the death of the other being.
Therefore, he couldn't
keep his precepts. So, he
met the Buddha, while the other one kept his precepts,
but he had the opportunity to meet the Buddha
first and received the blessing of being born into the
heavenly realm, still meeting the Buddha,
still hearing the Buddha's teachings.
And of course, in the heavenly realm, with the
Dharma, practicing will be less painful,
right, dear fellow practitioners? So,
we should also rely on this Dharma teaching. Through this
Dharma teaching, the Buddha taught the
monks: whoever meets me but doesn't practice
my Dharma is considered a thousand
miles away from me, but whoever, a thousand miles away,
practices my Dharma is actually
meeting me. So, the
Minh Niệm Dharma center, although far from Ba Vàng Pagoda—it's
not extremely far,
but it still takes three hours to get there. So,
how can we maintain closeness to the Sangha every day? Close to the monks, close to the virtuous
teachers.  Being close to the Three Jewels
means that we
listen to Dharma teachings through the internet, apply them
to our daily lives, and
transform our minds so
that they become virtuous,
benefiting ourselves,
society, and our families, bringing peace and
happiness. So, we are right next to the
temple, and within the temple itself, right, dear
Dharma friends? Then, dear Dharma
friends at
Minh Niem Dharma Center, if you cannot come to the temple on the 14th and 30th, you should
gather at one family's home and turn on the TV so that the
Buddhists can participate in the
repentance program and listen to the Dharma in such a solemn manner.
We should try to arrange our
time to be close to our
virtuous Dharma friends, that is,
our fellow Buddhists, instead of just turning on
the TV at home at that time and
watching the
Dharma while doing other things. That's not about
forcing ourselves to go to the Dharma
Center, but that way, the opportunity wo
n't be as good as going to the Dharma Center,
dear Dharma friends. It means knowing how to
arrange things and knowing how to be close to them.  My fellow practitioners,
that is already a blessing. From
this karmic connection, blessings arise for us.
These blessings allow
us to be close to
good people, and good people
tend to come to us, while evil people
tend to distance themselves from us. We
sincerely confess that because of the geographical distance, we
cannot return to the temple today. Therefore,
we, the Dharma assembly, have gathered here to
repent together and listen to the Dharma teachings.
In the Six Harmonies, there is harmony of body and dwelling together, dear
fellow practitioners. In the Six Harmonies, there is harmony of body and dwelling together, harmony of mind and joy, harmony of speech without understanding, harmony of Right View, harmony of understanding precepts, harmony of practice together, harmony of benefit sharing together. This is called sharing benefit sharing, dear
fellow
practitioners. In this, we have
harmony of body and dwelling together, harmony of mind and joy, harmony of speech
without understanding, harmony of Right View, harmony of understanding precepts, harmony of practice together, harmony of sharing benefit sharing together. At
this 14:30 session, we have the
power of harmony that allows us to benefit.
When we dedicate this harmony
to our families, it brings
happiness to our families.  Being
close to each other and dedicating merit to each other,
dear fellow practitioners, that is the blessing that
arises from that karmic connection. Even if we are
far apart, we must know how to arrange our
time to listen to the Dharma
together,
discuss Buddhist teachings, and
share our family circumstances and how to
apply them to Buddhism,
how to practice to transform our karma. Even if
we are far away, we still practice and
study like you, dear fellow practitioners. If we are not
too far away,
we can go to the temple, which
adds another kind of blessing, dear fellow
practitioners. If we are near the temple, we can
go to the temple. That is, in the Bodhisattva precepts,
there is a precept that if we are 160 km away from the temple, we
must go to the
temple. If we are more than 160
km away, we can listen
online, dear fellow practitioners. Lang Son is too far, is
n't it? That's too far,
so we can listen online on the 14th and 30th.
Only on the 18th day of the lunar month will we...  Let's try our best! Let's try to
go to the temple to practice the precepts.
For those who can't practice the precepts on the
eighth day and have to do other things,
let's also receive the precepts that day and practice them in
parts. In the morning, we'll receive the
Eight Precepts.
Wherever we are, whether we're selling goods or
working, we can open our doors and receive the precepts, even if we don't practice them. If we can perfectly observe the
eight precepts, we will
have a direction in the precepts, we will have
blessings, and we will have
good karma for ourselves, so that in many
lifetimes we can become monks and nuns, practice the Dharma, and practice the
Eight Precepts. Those eight precepts are the eight doors to lead us to escape the cycle of birth and death, dear fellow practitioners. So let's try our best! So, Yến is back today to celebrate the
one-year anniversary of the
Minh Niệm Dharma Center's establishment. Yến wishes all fellow practitioners good
health, diligence in listening to the Dharma, contemplating the Dharma, and practicing the
Dharma to transform
their lives in the present and to be diligent
in future lives. And may the entire Dharma center forge a
Dharma bond so we can meet again.
Together on the path of diligent practice, seeking
supreme enlightenment for the benefit of the
multitude. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
[Applause]